# Rehnuma (Admission Inquery Chatbot in RASA in ROMAN URDU)

Most of the existing chatbots have poor conversational understanding and they understand only a limited number of static queries and generate only a limited number of static responses. They only know what they are taught. Most of them don’t understand human context and it is a massive gap that irritates the users. Chatbot built using traditional approaches, are just hard-coded rule-based templates and rules to generate responses. Some chatbots have been developed for universities in the past but they have many flaws. Some of the flaws include chatbot being too rigid by rules for users to make inquiries, long latency between services, chatbot using frameworks that have some request limits, chatbots having no database to generate a variety of responses and depending on only APIs.

Most of the reliable chatbots developed till date are for resource-rich languages and rely heavily on already existing Natural Language Processing methods for English and some other limited number of resourceful languages. For a chatbot to be able to understand human language, it must understand human language’s semantics, syntax, and pragmatics etc. which is too difficult for a resource-poor language because there are too limited annotated resources available for these languages. Effectively incorporating these limited and unannotated resources to improve the performance of resource poor NLP is a difficult research problem.

Roman Urdu is a resource poor language due to which, there exists no chatbot in Roman Urdu that can understand dynamic queries of users and generate dynamic responses remembering the context of the conversation.

Our research problem is to build an AI based interactive, flexible, contextual, and intelligent chatbot that understands students’ queries written in Roman Urdu about FAST and admission process of FAST, and generate appropriate dynamic responses. Chatbot needs to understand and handle queries written in any format, handle spell variations, and detect offensive language. To the best of our knowledge, our project is the first project that focuses on building an AI based interactive, contextual, and intelligent chatbot that handles students’ queries written in Roman Urdu.
